♦ Big Data:
- Big Data refers to the dynamic, large and disparate volumes of data being created by people, tools, and machines. It requires new, innovative, and scalable technology to collect, host, and analytically process the vast amount of data gathered in order to derive real-time business insights that relate to consumers, risk, profit, performance, productivity management, and enhanced shareholder value.
- The V's of Big Data are: velocity, volume, variety, veracity, and value. 
	> Velocity - the speed at which data accumulates. Data is being generated extremely fast, in a process that never stops. Near or real-time streaming, local, and cloud-based technologies can process information very quickly. 
	> Volume - the scale of the data, or the increase in the amount of data stored. Drivers of volume are the increase in data sources, higher resolution sensors, and scalable infrastructure. 
	> Variety is the diversity of the data. Structured data fits neatly into rows and columns, while relational databases and unstructured data is not organized in a pre-defined way, like Tweets, blog posts, pictures, numbers, and video. Variety also reflects that data comes from different sources, machines, people, and processes, both internal and external to organizations. Drivers are mobile technologies, social media, wearable technologies, geo technologies, video, and many, many more.
	> Veracity is the quality and origin of data, and its conformity to facts and accuracy. Attributes include consistency, completeness, integrity, and ambiguity. Drivers include cost and the need for traceability. With the large amount of data available, the debate rages on about the accuracy of data in the digital era. Is the information real, or is it false? 
	> Value is our ability and need to turn data into value. Value isn't just profit. It may have medical or social benefits, as well as customer, employee, or personal satisfaction. The main reason that people invest time to understand Big Data is to derive value from it.

♦ Hadoop:
- Traditionally in computation and processing data we would bring the data to the computer. You'd wanna program and you'd bring the data into the program. In a big data cluster, what Larry Page and Sergey Brin came up with is very simple: 
	> They took the data and they sliced it into pieces and they distributed each and they replicated each piece or triplicated each piece and they would send it the pieces of these files to tens of thousands of computers. 
	> And then they would send the same program to all these computers in the cluster. And each computer would run the program on its little piece of the file and send the results back. 
	> The results would then be sorted and those results would then be redistributed back to another process. 
	> The first process is called a map or a mapper process and the second one was called a reduce process. Fairly simple concepts but turned out that you could handle lots of different kinds of problems and very large data sets. 
	> The one thing that's nice about these big data clusters is they scale linearly. You had twice as many servers and you get twice the performance and you can handle twice the amount of data.
	
♦ Differences:
- Big data: 
	> Refers to data sets that are so massive, so quickly built, and so varied that they defy traditional analysis methods such as you might perform with a relational database. Big data is often described in terms of five V's; velocity, volume, variety, veracity, and value. 
- Data mining: 
	> The process of automatically searching and analyzing data, discovering previously unrevealed patterns. It involves preprocessing the data to prepare it and transforming it into an appropriate format. Once this is done, insights and patterns are mined and extracted using various tools and techniques ranging from simple data visualization tools to machine learning and statistical models.
- Machine learning:
	> It is a subset of AI that uses computer algorithms to analyze data and make intelligent decisions based on what it is learned without being explicitly programmed. Machine learning algorithms are trained with large sets of data and they learn from examples. They do not follow rules-based algorithms. Machine learning is what enables machines to solve problems on their own and make accurate predictions using the provided data. 
- Deep learning 
	> It is a specialized subset of machine learning that uses layered neural networks to simulate human decision-making. Deep learning algorithms can label and categorize information and identify patterns. It is what enables AI systems to continuously learn on the job and improve the quality and accuracy of results by determining whether decisions were correct. 
- Artificial neural networks
	> Often referred to simply as neural networks, take inspiration from biological neural networks, although they work quite a bit differently. A neural network in AI is a collection of small computing units called neurons that take incoming data and learn to make decisions over time. Neural networks are often layer-deep and are the reason deep learning algorithms become more efficient as the data sets increase in volume, as opposed to other machine learning algorithms that may plateau as data increases. 
- Data Science 
	> It is the process and method for extracting knowledge and insights from large volumes of disparate data. It's an interdisciplinary field involving mathematics, statistical analysis, data visualization, machine learning, and more. 
	> It's what makes it possible for us to appropriate information, see patterns, find meaning from large volumes of data and use it to make decisions that drive business. 
	> Data Science can use many of the AI techniques to derive insight from data. For example, it could use machine learning algorithms and even deep learning models to extract meaning and draw inferences from data. There is some interaction between AI and Data Science, but one is not a subset of the other.
	> Rather, Data Science is a broad term that encompasses the entire data processing methodology while AI includes everything that allows computers to learn how to solve problems and make intelligent decisions. 
	> Both AI and Data Science can involve the use of big data.